http://www.ted.com/talks/stephen_palumbi_following_the_mercury_trail.html
there's a tight and surprising link between the ocean's health and ours, says marine biologist stephen palumbi. he shows how toxins at the bottom of the ocean food chain find their way into our bodies, with a shocking story of toxic contamination from a japanese fish market. his work points a way forward for saving the oceans' health -- and humanity's.
fish,health,mission blue,oceans,science
899
stephen palumbi: following the mercury trail
it can be a very complicated thing, the ocean.
and it can be a very complicated thing, what human health is.
and bringing those two together might seem a very daunting task, but what i'm going to try to say is that even in that complexity, there's some simple themes that i think, if we understand, we can really move forward.
and those simple themes aren't really themes about the complex science of what's going on, but things that we all pretty well know.
and i'm going to start with this one: if momma ain't happy, ain't nobody happy.
we know that, right? we've experienced that.
and if we just take that and we build from there, then we can go to the next step, which is that if the ocean ain't happy, ain't nobody happy.
that's the theme of my talk.
and we're making the ocean pretty unhappy in a lot of different ways.
this is a shot of cannery row in 1932.
cannery row, at the time, had the biggest industrial canning operation on the west coast.
we piled enormous amounts of pollution into the air and into the water.
rolf bolin, who was a professor at the hopkin's marine station where i work, wrote in the 1940s that "the fumes from the scum floating on the inlets of the bay were so bad they turned lead-based paints black."
people working in these canneries could barely stay there all day because of the smell, but you know what they came out saying?
they say, "you know what you smell?
you smell money."
that pollution was money to that community, and those people dealt with the pollution and absorbed it into their skin and into their bodies because they needed the money.
we made the ocean unhappy; we made people very unhappy, and we made them unhealthy.
the connection between ocean health and human health is actually based upon another couple simple adages, and i want to call that "pinch a minnow, hurt a whale."
the pyramid of ocean life ...
now, when an ecologist looks at the ocean -- i have to tell you -- we look at the ocean in a very different way, and we see different things than when a regular person looks at the ocean because when an ecologist looks at the ocean, we see all those interconnections.
we see the base of the food chain, the plankton, the small things, and we see how those animals are food to animals in the middle of the pyramid, and on so up this diagram.
and that flow, that flow of life, from the very base up to the very top, is the flow that ecologists see.
and that's what we're trying to preserve when we say, "save the ocean. heal the ocean."
it's that pyramid.